Number two.
Testing number one. Testing number one. Testing
number one. Testing testing. Testing number two.
Testing number two. Number two testing.
This is testing XYZ XYZ testing. This is testing
ABC, ABC testing. This is April the 7th, 8th? April
the 8th. April the 8th. We're over on Broadmoor,
and I have the pleasure of interviewing Ned
Walton, class of? 63. 63. Ned, to introduce
yourself to anyone that might hear the tape or read
a transcription, give a biographical summary of,
your background and family and where you grew up,
went to high school and so forth, before you came to
A&M. High school I was raised up in what's called
the Arklatex area, about halfway between
Texarkana and Shreveport, right on the state
line, a little place called Walton Center. It
actually was the state line. Our farm bordered the
state line. and one of six children. Three boys,
three girls. There was actually four boys. One boy
died as an infant a couple weeks old with
pneumonia, whooping cough, something of that
sort back in the old days. Hard to treat in those
days. But I was raised there in the architects.
We had a history there in the family. My dad worked
for an oil company. He was an oil field pumper and
gauger. The old Standard Oil of Indiana brand,
Amoco, and some of those companies are part of that
family. The oil field up in that area consisted of
the McLeod oil field, the Rhodessa oil field, and
the Oil City area. And all of that was just on the
edge of that big East Texas oil field. So I was
raised in that part of the world, and some people
call that still in the oil patch.
Very well brought up by my parents to appreciate
everything in life, to appreciate education. My
dad was very insistent that the kids get
education, and he said there will always be a way
for you to go to school. I went to McLeod.
McLeod was 12 grades all on one campus, separated
between the first six grades and the second six
grades by the cafeteria and the auditorium. How
many in your senior grade? I had about 20 or 21 in my
senior class, which was a very, very large class
for McLeod. It was a little class B school back in
those days, and there were... I believe maybe five
boys in that class, and the rest were girls. Or
maybe I have that reversed. I don't even remember
now. But there were not a lot of us, and I
had a real interesting thing to happen to me when I
was in high school that really prepared me and let
me come to A&M. I had done well in high school as a
student, but the course offerings were rather
limited. There was a young man that graduated from
East Texas State and went up to the University of
Oklahoma and got degrees in math and physics. He
was a high school classmate at McLeod of one of my
older sisters. The boy's name was Ross Evans. Ross
was hired by NASA. before NASA existed. He
received his master's at, like I said, OU in math
and physics. And they had a job for him at
Huntsville, Alabama, whenever Huntsville got up
and running. And there was a one-year lag in
between the time he graduated from OU and starting
his NASA job. And he came to McLeod High School and
taught. And in my senior year, he taught me
physics, trigonometry, solid geometry, and I
guess what we'd call precalculus. And he said, if
you're going to go to one of the major schools, an
A&M or Texas or whatever, you really need this
preparation. And probably had it not been for
that, I'd have a much tougher time at A&M than what I
did. But that's where I came from. It's a little bit
of my background. My mother was from Arkansas. My
father His ancestors settled a little place of
Walton Center there on the state line, and
actually not only there in Walton Center, but in
Caddo Parish, Louisiana, Miller County,
Arkansas, Cass County, Texas. That was pretty
much the centroid area of where the Waltons
landed, and still have the farm there in Walton
Center, and one of my sisters lives there on the
farm. Did you come to visit A&M before you came to
enroll? I had been to A&M one time. Now, my brother,
my oldest brother, 12 years my senior, spent two
years at what was called Magnolia A&M. I guess that
was in... trying to think what Arkansas, I guess
it's maybe Arkansas State now. Anyway, at
Magnolia A&M, a little place in Magnolia,
Arkansas, and transferred to A&M and spent three
years at A&M and took a petroleum engineering
degree, class of 51. And so I had a chance when I was a
very small child to come down one time and had no
impression whatsoever of being here. But my
brother put me in Aggie T-shirts and that sort of
thing when I was a kid. And I can remember some
photographs of wearing the Aggie T-shirt that my
brother had brought to me. But that was my only real
connection direct with A&M when I was a youngster.
Now, we had a lot of history. both in the Walton
family and in McCloud that was A&M related. And so I
had a real strong push, if you will, to consider
A&M. So you came to A&M largely for impersonal
reasons, by that I mean without any direct
contact. Did some teachers encourage you? Yes, my
high school principal was an Aggie, Lewis Hamm.
Went on to become superintendent at McLeod, and
then superintendent at Como-Picton, also over in
East Texas. And my brother, an Aggie, I had several
cousins that were Aggies. The three McLeod boys,
Max, Curtis, and Gerald, were all A&M graduates by
that time. James Odom, who was two classes ahead of
me, and Jim Stewart, three classes ahead of me,
McLeod graduates all came to A&M. In fact, Jim
Stewart was a civil engineering graduate, and I he
probably had a little bit of influence going into
the civil area. I really started in math and
physics because of this high school teacher, Ross
Evans, who was going to NASA. I really enjoyed the
math and physics that I got as a senior, so I went
from math and physics to civil engineering, back
to math and physics, and back to civil
engineering, all in my freshman year, and finally
settled on civil engineering. So maybe it was
impersonal reasons that I came to A&M, but there
was a long history of some McLeod folks coming to
A&M and then relatives coming to A&M. Now, you come
down to enroll in the fall of 58 or 59? 59. I actually
came to summer school for six weeks. Describe
that. Very interesting. Really, it was my
brother's recommendation. He said, little
brother, You're going to get down there in that
forest of trees, and you're not going to know where
you are or what you're doing, and it's going to be
very traumatic for you coming out of McLeod. I know
it was traumatic for me going from Magnolia A&M
down there to spend a few years. So I think it would
be good for you to go down there in summer school. So
I worked half that summer and came down for the
second session of summer school. and took college
algebra and college trig, I guess it was, and
that's six weeks of summer school. You lived on
campus. Lived on campus. Let me think.
Haskell, I believe in that summer I lived in what
they would call Mitchell Hall. I believe it was
Mitchell Hall. And I remember very much the Grove,
Guyon Hall, things from that summer. It was a very
fast six weeks. Oh, it was extremely fast. And you
did okay academically? Well, I would say we did
okay. I think I made a couple of B's maybe in those
classes. And then you go home. Go home. What did you
tell your folks your impression was? I told them it
was a go. I really enjoyed it, and I was looking
forward to going back for the fall semester, being
in the Corps. And at that point, your major was
going to be what? Math and physics. And what did you
think that was going to lead to? I had no earthly
idea, Haskell. It was a matter of... of Ross really
encouraging me in the math and physics area. By the
way, I saw him Thanksgiving. I told him that
whether he knows it or not, he was a large part of my
life in the years ahead. This is your older
brother? No, this is the guy that taught the math
and physics to me in high school. Oh, how good. Yes,
I just, you know, that really meant something to me
that you probably don't know, but probably had I
not had that experience, I would have had a real
difficult time in engineering at A&M. But I had no
idea where math and physics, well, maybe it would
lead me to NASA or somewhere like that, high
school, but... Now, you go home then, and as you
come back to enroll, how did you get down here? My
daddy put me in a 55
model Studebaker. Wow.
That was the first new car my dad ever bought, was a
55 Studebaker. Little 600 Champion. And he had put
me in a little 50-mile Studebaker when I was in high
school. So he passed that? When I say he put me in it,
we worked together and we bought that little
Studebaker. But he passed down... a 55 Studebaker
Champion to me when I came to A&M. And he bought him a
little 59 model Lark Studebaker, a little station
wagon. Something behind that one, too, because
when my dad died, I inherited that vehicle to
finish up school. But he put me that little 55
Studebaker, and I drove to A&M in that little 55
Studebaker. As you can remember, what stuff did
you bring home? in that car to become a freshman?
Not much. A footlocker, which they had told us we
had to have. One blanket, a couple of changes of
bedding, towels, washcloths, that sort of thing.
Very, very nominal shoes and socks and underwear
and pants and that sort of stuff. Very, very
minimum. No furniture, no rugs, nothing like
that. It was essentially a foot locker and a couple
of sacks full of them. Did you know before you got
down here on that trip, did you know what outfit you
were going to be in? Haskell, I don't believe I did.
I believe that when we got down and started the
enrollment process, of course the enrollment
process was different then than what I
experienced as a prof there, but I was assigned to
an engineering company. And it was real
interesting because the engineering company,
all of the freshmen essentially that went into
that outfit, and that was H-1 became G-2 after a
year or so. H-1 was disbanded. All of the freshmen,
essentially in that outfit, were engineers, but
very few of the upperclassmen were engineers.
They had already gone off to business and
agriculture, some of the other majors.
Engineering seemed to be a real tough washout in
those days. What kind of advice... an instruction
did a new fish get in that outfit? Oh, goodness,
Haskell, that there would be call to quarters and
that it would be monitored very rigorously and
that you were expected to be at four-point stance
at your desk during all call to quarters, which
which meant arms and elbows on the chair arms and
feet on the floor. During call to quarters, you
couldn't prop your feet up, couldn't lean back in
your chair. You had to be right at that desk.
Academics really seemed to be real prime to the
first sergeant, a boy named Charlie Rollins, and
to the CO. They really said, you know, you're
really going to have to work hard to make it
academically because not many of you are going to
make it through your freshman year. Not many of us
did as a matter of fact. And you were in what dorm? We
were in dorm 14. That was called the old dorm area.
The new dorm area was dorm 2 through 12 over on the
other side of campus. But that was the old dorm area
and dorm 14 was the guard room. a dorm located on the
bottom floor. I guess that would be roughly the
north end of that dorm. We were in dorm 14. And you
get a roommate or so. Yes. Describe that roommate
and that room and how y'all worked it out. That
roommate was a boy named
Bill Burnett. Bill had two brothers, Duke Burnett
and Don Burnett, who were upperclassmen at the
time. One was a sophomore and junior. The other was
a senior at A&M at the time. Bill came in as a
freshman. It was from Terrell, a friend of one Jim
Keller. from Terrell, who was on the football team
as a freshman, and of course later coached some at
A&M. But Bill was my official lady. Bill was no
better prepared for the shock of the coronation
than I was, even though he came from a larger place.
It was just, you know, for the first few weeks, it
was just trauma one day after the other. You didn't
know what to expect or what was coming up next. What
did the upperclassmen tell you all to do and not to
do?
told us all those things that you had to do like
whipping out and how you were to eat in the mess hall
at Sabisa and things, other things not to do. Be
real careful around the bulls. Make sure that you
learned how to address them and salute them real
quick and All those were the proper dos and what
have you. And the don'ts were don't mess with
upperclassmen. Leave them alone and no water
drown outs, you know, no babble bombs, that sort of
thing in the dorms. But be prepared for the first
water fight. be prepared for the first male fight
in Sebesa, that they would come. That was just part
of old Army bull. And we were, I will tell you, we
were taught and told what to expect. Did they give
you any advice about going to class and studying
and taking notes? Well, they did. In each of the
outfits, there was a scholastic officer, if you
will, and a scholastic sergeant. And then there
was somebody assigned to make sure that all of the
freshmen were at their desk during call to
quarters. And they monitored our attendance and
monitored our grades. They would ask on a weekly
basis how we were doing. And had, you know, the
scholastic sergeant, best I remember, had the old
poop file. You know, there was a room in the core
dorm, and I guess every company had it, where
literally there were just dozens of files of old
quizzes from every prof on campus. And so they kind
of taught you a little bit how to old poop it. And
that seemed to be part of the process. Did you and
other fish go down and look at those files? Oh,
goodness, yes. Oh, yes. And it was very
disheartening to go into a file and not be able to
find anything on a particular prof, especially
one that you were really afraid of, a prof that was
really. Do you remember any of the courses that
first semester? Yes. And that's what I'm going to
tell you about one. And this can certainly go into
the record. You taught me History 105 as a first
semester freshman. and why i remember that so well
is that you went through the total roster asking
every freshman where was hometown and when i told
you hometown was mcleod you said oh yes that's up in
northeast texas just on the state line across from
louisiana and i was tremendously impressed with
that and still don't know till today haskell and
perhaps someday you'll confess to me You either
knew your history extremely well and geography
better, or you had reviewed that roster and had
gone to the map and tried to find where all these
students were from. And it was just absolutely
delightful for me to know that you knew where I kind
of started saying, oh my goodness, There's hope.
People know where McLeod is. As far as I know, it was
just having had that trivia memory of where the
towns are. That was fall of 59, and you were, I don't
know if you were fish or not yourself, you were a
first year or very close to just arriving at A&M.
That was my first year. I had come from Rice. I had a
temporary nine-month job that lasted 21 years.
How interesting. I was filling in for a guy that was
on leave, And in the middle of the year, he said he
wouldn't come back, and so Dr. Nance told me I could
stay. Well, I'll be... Yeah, I remember that. Some
other first semester. I certainly remember the
courses. I remember that first English class,
and... how disheartening two or three D's and F's
in a row were on the first papers of what they were
requiring. It was so different from what we had
seen in high school, but got with the program
fairly soon. And I was not just a real outstanding
freshman student. As far as that goes, I don't
guess I was an outstanding student in
undergraduate school at all. I got through and was
not ashamed of it. Got me into graduate school and
through a Ph.D. program. But you didn't make any
low grades that first semester, did you? I don't
believe I made a D. I think everything was C or
better that first semester. And you were taking
about how many hours? Oh, goodness, Haskell. Back
then, see, a civil engineering degree was 160
hours. So we were, and six of that was in summer
school between your junior and senior year, which
was the surveying camp out at Junction, which I
remember very well, too. But we were taking 19 or 20
hours every semester. You had to. And by the way, I
graduated in eight semesters plus two summers. I
laid out one semester, first semester of my
sophomore year. I lost my father. And I laid out a
semester to kind of get things together and find
money to come back to school. And that's where I
developed a very strong banking relationship
with folks in Bryan College Station to help me go to
school. It scared me to this day, as a matter of
fact. I developed friendships back then that
still exist. But I was 18, 19, probably at least as
an average. I don't know of any semesters that I had
the luxury of 12, 14, 15. I don't remember anything
like that. Describe as much as you can your typical
life. weekday routine during that freshman year?
What time did you get up and what did you do when?
Gosh, it was, in retrospect, I can look back and say
it wasn't all that bad, but at the time it was
absolutely horrible. It was getting up at whistle
jock, blowing the whistle at I guess 6.15, 6.30 in
the morning. You're getting up in the shower and
shaving, cleaning up, getting your uniform on,
preparing your room for inspection, which was
going to happen sometime whether you wanted it to
or not. And going to chow and just putting it down as
fast as you could feed it in your mouth because of
time constraint, getting back to the room and
being sure that you had a quarter flippin' off of
your bed top, you know, tightly pulled together,
military corners and everything, and knowing
some upperclassmen gonna come back by and take a
look, probably even before class, and harass you,
kind of delay you time-wise, and then trying to
rush to that first class. pretty much in class.
There was not a lot of free time during the day. You
were in class, it seems like, much more than they
are now. You know, if you were taking 18, 19 hours
with a couple of laboratories, you know, you add
another six hours. You were literally in class 25,
26 hours a week. And engineering graphics was even
worse than that. That was a two-hour credit class.
I think we were spending maybe eight hours in the
classroom on engineering graphics, so it was real
heavy, real heavy in the classroom. If you had any
free time during the day, Where did you spend that
time? Well, you know, you would want to go back to
your room, but goodness, the upperclassmen, I
mean, that was, you were asking for it if you went
back to your room. Now, that was punishment. The
upperclassmen see you come down the hall, Fish
Walton, what are you doing, and where are you
going? And they would occupy your time for you. So
we found other places to go. We'd go to the Student
Center, MSC. We would hang out there. Couldn't go
off campus, obviously. I mean, a freshman had no
right to go off campus for any reason at any time.
Maybe venture a little bit off campus on Sunday to
go to church. That was about it. You didn't go off on
weekends and what have you until it was announced
usually at Saturday drill. a free afternoon,
which meant that you could go out on Saturday night
and go to the campus theater or even go downtown to
the palace or somewhere if you felt like you wanted
to, but a busy, busy day. That freshman year, did
you find any place where you could go slip off and
take a nap? like in the library? Haskell, yes, I did
in fact go to the library and sneak naps because you
weren't sleeping well at night. At the time, you
know, have a few wake-ups in the middle of the night
to run a few times around campus or go into the
shower and have a you know, one of the sessions in
the shower, the upperclassmen's, where they turn
on all the hot water and see how long you last, you
know, that sort of thing. So, yeah, a library was a
frequent place to go to. Well, not only, and I will
admit to you, I even used the library for academic
purposes, but yes, I've been known to sneaking up
at the library. Now, when y'all, in the dorm you
were in, when y'all fell out to march to chow, where
did you Y'all fell out right in front of the dorm?
Right in that quadrangle that was between 14, 15,
and 16. They formed a U there in that quad, and we
fell out in that quad area. It was a flagpole right
at the end of the quad, and we marched right
straight up to Sabisa. How often did y'all go over
to the core area, the new core area? toward Duncan
and participate in anything over there? The only
time we essentially got together like that was on
Saturdays. We'd all go to the drill field on
Saturdays or some other place where we had, and we
had Saturday drills every Saturday. I don't
remember not having drills on Saturday for my
total core experience. And
that was either on the drill field or somewhere
else. we would uh... see we got moved see I laid out
that first semester of my sophomore year and I came
back in to the core really beginning of my junior
year and we had moved over to what's called the new
dorm area uh... H-1 had been disbanded and we
became G-2 And so then we were located. Then we were
in dorm two, which was the core dorm, where
headquarters was located, and ended up in dorm
two. And so, of course, all of our fallouts and
everything was in that big quadrangle there. Now,
and I should have asked earlier, there was no fish
camp. No, no fish camp. And did they give you all any
advice on how to study, how to prepare? Did
anybody? Haskell, very minimal, if anything.
Again, even most of the upperclassmen were not
engineers. They'd already gone to marketing and
business and what have you. And they told us about
call to quarters. Maybe there was a little bit,
they did encourage us to go to the library, spend as
much time in the library as we could, use the old
quiz files and what have you as much as we could. If
there were such things as review sessions, we'd go
to review sessions. But those were extremely
limited in those days. And we had to sign out, of
course, to go to places like that. If you left CQ and
called quarters and said, I'm going to the
library, upperclassmen had to sign your, and you
put that on your door. You go to the library, you
better be in the library. And then they checked up
on you every once in a while. That fish year, did you
and your buddies attempt any goofy stuff in the
chow hall? Yeah. Any tricks, pranks? Well, yeah.
We were involved in, you know. Such as?
Accidentally flipping a whole bowl full of stewed
tomatoes and boiled okra off on an upperclassman.
Be clumsy and feign it, and then pay the penalty for
it. We could not start food fights. That was left to
the upperclassmen. But we participated. I can
remember putting the old big rolls in the water
pitchers and splattering those all over. Many,
many times I was a good hog caller. And the week of
Arkansas game, freshmen had to stand up in their
chair at the chow hall and call the hogs. And I was a
pretty good hog caller, being an old farm boy, so I
got to do that a lot.
Got to poke fun at Rice and SMU and some of the other
schools during those weeks. Do you remember what
it was like to go to those first football games as a
fish? Yeah, it was, you were lucky if you could have
the opportunity to have a date to go, you know. Most
all those football games were, we marched in, and
most of us, most fish without dates. I mean, we were
far, far from home, and it was hard to get a girl in.
So what did you and your buddies do then after the
game was over? Oh, Haskell, goodness. You know,
other than chasing down the Yale leaders and
participating in that kind of revelry, I don't
recall a lot of things real exciting happening
after the ball games. Did, at that point, that
freshman year, did you have some spending money?
Did you have a kind of a budget? Very, very limited.
had you earned it, or had your parents given it to
you, or some of both? It was a little bit of both. My
dad, again, was very insistent that I was going to
school, was very pleased that I was going to A&M
because big brother had graduated from A&M. He was
very much against my oldest brother coming to A&M.
He wanted my oldest brother to be a school teacher
and did not need to go all the way down to College
Station to get a